## UML Mark 2
```
+--------------------------------------------------+
| Ratings                                          |
+--------------------------------------------------+
| ratingID                                         |
| stars (enum 1 to 5)                              |
| title                                            |
| author(who wrote the rating, user_id)            |
| subject (who the rating about, separate user_id) |
| comments                                         |
| post_id                                          |
+-------------------------+------------------------+
     \|/                  |
      |                   |
      |                  /|\
+-----+---------+    +----------+    +-----------------+
|Posts (to do's)|    |Users     |    |Skills (can do's)|
+---------------+    +----------+    +-----------------+
|postID         |    |userID    |    |id(autogenerated)|
|payment        >----+loginName +----<userID           |
|title          |    |firstName |    |title            |
|description    |    |lastName  |    |description      |
|type of task   |    |email     |    +---\|/-----------+
|date_posted    |    |phoneNo   |         |
|date_finished  |    |a^gRating |    +----+--------+
|location       |    +----------+    |Skill Options|
|client_user_id |                    +-------------+
|worker_user_id |                    |A            |
+---------------+                    |B            |
                                     |C            |
                                     +-------------+
```


## Questions to Address

```javascript
module.exports = (sequelize, DataTypes) => {
	Skills = sequelize.define('Skills',{
		skillsID : { type: DataTypes.UUID, primaryKey: true }, //1.
		userID:, //2.
		title: DataTypes.STRING,
		description: DataTypes.TEXT
	})
//3.

//4.a.
  foreignID: {
    type: Sequelize.INTEGER,
    references: {
      model: OtherModel,
      key: 'id',
      deferrable: Sequelize.Deferrable.INITIALLY_IMMEDIATE
    }
  }

//4.b.
    Polls.associate = (models) => {
    models.Polls.hasMany(models.Choices);
  }
}
```

1. Should I use integers or UUID datatypes?
  - use integers instead of UUID's for primary keys. UUID's are really big numbers 128-bit number (a 38 digit number in decimal). Integers in postgres are like 64 bits long. Integers are smaller, easier to store and the methods handling them are easier to work with. For this (small) project just use ints.
  - my confusion came from a post online that said "UUID's are used to avoid repetition." I was working with the mathematics mentality that new integers can always be found. The set of integers is infinite, so there's always another unique one you just have to increment +1 to find it. However, integers have an upper limit in SQL, just like any programming language, after which they cycle back and repeat. Just like a clock, after 12 comes 1.
  - the default primary key in sequelize uses is  `id : {}`.  Generally leavethe name of the primary key alone. Many sequelize methods (including association methods) work for default sequelize values unless otherwise configured. Its a pain in the ass to configure them any other way.
2. Figure out how to use a foreign primary key from the user table here.
  - Sequelize's [association methods](http://docs.sequelizejs.com/manual/tutorial/associations.html) generate foreign keys in your table. You can manually declare userID as you have done here, but it is generally better to use built in functionality to take care of that for you. 
    - You can any parameters to the association function if you need to somehow customize aspects of the foreign key . 
    - the assosciation methods also adds secondary functions/methods that can manipulate foreign keys which you wouldn't have if you declared foreign keys manually as is done in //2 and //4
3. Want to associate skills with users. One user can have many skills. if I make this association do I still have to declare a userID column above?
  - No, see the answer for number 2.
4. a.There's this foreign keys object in the sequelize documentation. 
   b.yet in the polls app there is no such declaration we simply go on to use the association method.
   - see number 2. You can use either association methods or define your own foreign keys. Association methods are generally better.
5. What are migrations? do we need them for this project?
   - migrations are used as an extra level of protection for your database from erroneous writes or reads. 
   - Recall that your models are fundamentally javascript objects stored in the javascript call stack (or wherever javascript stores objects). At any rate, these models are in RAM and not yet written to disk (which is where your database is.) 
   - Migrations are not necessary for us because of `.readdirSync(__dirname)` in the index.js of the /models folder. This prompts sequelize to directly sync all the changes in our models with corresponding changes in the database. 
   - In larger applications you might make lots of changes to the models and then later update the database. This is what migration is. Also while updating you can run a series of validation functions (or any kind of function) during this step.
6. Is there a guide somewhere on what best practices there are to validating input?
   - No. Validating input is done on a case by case basis. You can validate based on the legal inputs you want to receive, but you will also need to do some testing to make sure that your validations aren't incomplete and let in bad inputs.
7. On the `unique` property.
  - Unique means it can only appear on the table once, not that it is attached to the primary key.
  - However the primary key is also unique. No two table rows can share a primary key.
  - for two keys to be unique together, in other words, the combination of two column values has to be unique for a given table. 

```javascript
 A: { type: Sequelize.STRING,  unique: 'compositeIndex' },
 B: { type: Sequelize.INTEGER, unique: 'compositeIndex' },
```

- composite index makes multiple combinations of variables unique. No two rows can share the same combination of A and B. If A="1" and B="2" another row in the table can have A="1" and B="3" or A="2" and B="2" but not a copy of A="1" and B="2".
8. ==look into image storage==